README.md, before:

# `ergot`

[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ergot.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/ergot) [![Documentation](https://docs.rs/ergot/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/ergot)

**Ergot is a messaging library that can run on a variety of differently sized devices, from large desktop/server PCs down to very small single core microcontrollers.**

Ergot allows developers to enjoy a coherent network of devices, regardless of the size of devices, or transport mediums used to connect them.

It includes **type-safe sockets**, **addressing**, and **routing**. In minimal MCU-sized configurations, it requires no allocator, and is `no_std` friendly. In larger PC-sized configurations, allocations may be used for better performance and convenience.

Ergot has grown out of the lessons of the [`postcard`] and [`postcard-rpc`] projects, and aims to (eventually) supersede `postcard-rpc` in functionality. [AppleTalk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AppleTalk), an OSI-model protocol stack used on Mac computers in the late 80s and early 90s, provided further inspiration.

[`postcard`]: https://crates.io/crates/postcard
[`postcard-rpc`]: https://crates.io/crates/postcard-rpc

Ergot is still very early in development. Bugs are expected. Help is welcome.

## Community

- [Join us on Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#mnemos-dev:beeper.com)
- [6 Streams a week on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@JamesOfficeHours/streams),
  Monday, Wednesday, Friday
  - Start of day at 10:30 CEST
  - End of day at 20:00 CEST

## Name

The name "ergot" (pronounced "ur-get", or more specifically /ˈɜːrɡət/, UR-gət) comes from the [Ergot fungus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ergot), a parasitic fungus that grows on grains such as rye, produces Lysergic Acid, the precursor of LSD.

This name was chosen in line with the naming theme of the [mycelium](https://github.com/hawkw/mycelium/) project.

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](./crates/ergot/LICENSE-APACHE) or
  <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](./crates/ergot/LICENSE-MIT) or <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

Provide overview of documentation in README (#179)
While the README already links to the API reference, via the badge at
the top, I think this is a bit too subtle and easy to miss. Adding a
dedicated section makes the documentation overall more discoverable.

Since the README is included into the API reference, at the crate root,
this also adds a sorely missing link to the introduction there.

This also means that we're going to link to the API reference, from the
API reference, which is awkward. I'm not sure how to fix it though,
without decoupling it from the README.

README.md, after:

# `ergot`

[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ergot.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/ergot) [![Documentation](https://docs.rs/ergot/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/ergot)

**Ergot is a messaging library that can run on a variety of differently sized devices, from large desktop/server PCs down to very small single core microcontrollers.**

Ergot allows developers to enjoy a coherent network of devices, regardless of the size of devices, or transport mediums used to connect them.

It includes **type-safe sockets**, **addressing**, and **routing**. In minimal MCU-sized configurations, it requires no allocator, and is `no_std` friendly. In larger PC-sized configurations, allocations may be used for better performance and convenience.

Ergot has grown out of the lessons of the [`postcard`] and [`postcard-rpc`] projects, and aims to (eventually) supersede `postcard-rpc` in functionality. [AppleTalk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AppleTalk), an OSI-model protocol stack used on Mac computers in the late 80s and early 90s, provided further inspiration.

[`postcard`]: https://crates.io/crates/postcard
[`postcard-rpc`]: https://crates.io/crates/postcard-rpc

Ergot is still very early in development. Bugs are expected. Help is welcome.

## Documentation

To learn more about ergot, you have multiple options:

- [**Introduction**](https://docs.rs/ergot/latest/ergot/book/index.html): This is the best place to start, if you're new to ergot. It explains how ergot works, and how you use it.
- [**Demos**](demos/): This repository contains a wide variety of demos that show how to use ergot in various scenarios.
- [**API Reference**](https://docs.rs/ergot/latest/ergot/): Handy to have around, if you need to know more.

Please note that the link to the API reference above covers the latest release. If you need it for an unreleased version (or just want to have a local copy), run `cargo doc --open` from [crates/ergot/](crates/ergot/).

## Community

- [Join us on Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#mnemos-dev:beeper.com)
- [6 Streams a week on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@JamesOfficeHours/streams),
  Monday, Wednesday, Friday
  - Start of day at 10:30 CEST
  - End of day at 20:00 CEST

## Name

The name "ergot" (pronounced "ur-get", or more specifically /ˈɜːrɡət/, UR-gət) comes from the [Ergot fungus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ergot), a parasitic fungus that grows on grains such as rye, produces Lysergic Acid, the precursor of LSD.

This name was chosen in line with the naming theme of the [mycelium](https://github.com/hawkw/mycelium/) project.

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](./crates/ergot/LICENSE-APACHE) or
  <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](./crates/ergot/LICENSE-MIT) or <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
